[GINKO]
So, what else do you have?
This exquisite coat.
Ah! Well, I've got
to admit, it's lovely.
[ANTIQUES DEALER] It's the
handiwork of a painter
who was very famous once.
A one-of-a-kind item.
Look at the detail.
There's someone cooking
in the mountains here.
Sometimes when you look at it,
it seems you can actually
see the white smoke
rising up in the design.
You could almost
imagine it's coming from
the chimneys of people's homes
way up on the mountain.
[KAI] So, have you ever
seen them, Father?
The people that live
up in those mountains?
Hm? I think
you're mistaken, son.
No one lives up there.
But I... I always see
lots of smoke rising.
It's probably just some
hunters burning charcoal.
Maybe the mountain god
who lives up there
is cooking his dinner.
[KAI]
Gods cook, too? Really?
Of course. How else
are they going to eat?
[KAI]
Gods don't get hungry, Sis.
[KAI'S SISTER] Maybe he's
heating his bath, then.
[KAI'S FATHER] Hey, you two!
It's getting late!
Run on home
and get dinner started.
I'll be along shortly,
all right?
--Okay!
--Yes, sir!
All right, come on!
[KAI] Back then,
there were mysterious things
on the mountain.
Today, it still looks much
as it did when I was young,
but it's no longer the same.
When we were children,
it was a magical place to live.
So was our village.
They were like delicate,
beautiful things
wrapped in a soft cloth.
Hey, uh... What's this?
Just a little something
I made so you'd look
more respectable
for your art teacher.
It's woven from silk thread
from the silkworms
on the mountain,
and it's dyed with plants
that grow there, too.
Kai, if you can't
return home for some time,
I'll understand.
And don't worry,
Father will change his mind
about your career. You'll see.
Now if you get lonely,
just look at this coat and
it will remind you of home.
Thanks, Sis. I will.
[KAI] And I will become
a fine artist, I promise.
I'll come back
as soon as I can.
[KAI]
Will Master ever let me paint?
How many months has it been?
Father, Sis.
I really miss you.
[ARTIST]
Hey. You there.
Take these dishes.
Rinse them out.
[KAI]
Yes, sir!
Looks like spring
is finally here.
Kai! I need you!
[KAI]
Coming!
[ARTIST]
Is this your coat?
This painting.
Whose work is it?
[KAI] It's mine.
Forgive me, Master.
I wanted to paint so badly!
You're the one
who painted this?
[KAI]
Yes.
[ARTIST]
I don't like it.
No, I don't like it at all.
[KAI]
Master!
From hereon,
you'll be in the studio.
Starting tomorrow.
Not that there's much
I can teach you.
[KAI] Out of paint? Already?!
I was so close to finishing.
[ART DEALER] Sensei!
So, how's it coming along?
The delivery date
is coming up soon.
[chuckles]
Don't worry. I'll make it.
[KAI] Dead broke.
What do I do now?
I've borrowed and begged
from everyone that I could.
There's nothing left to sell.
[PAWN SHOP OWNER]
It's not in the best condition.
I can't give you very much.
[KAI] Please! Can't you
offer me a little more?!
It's magnificient.
Truly magnificient.
I applaud your master for
recommending you for this job.
It's amazing that
someone with your talent
is still an unknown.
Yes. Amazing.
Tell me: do you think
you could possibly
paint another one
like this by next month?
My grandson's wedding
is coming up, you see.
I need a wedding gift
for him, and you need a way
to expose
your talents to others.
Yes! I'll get right on it!
[KAI]
Wake up.
Can't be sleeping right now.
That painting of yours
was the talk of the wedding.
Here, these are for you, my boy.
Commissions for work.
Thank you for doing me proud.
And best of luck to you.
I did it!
At last! I said
I'd make it one day.
Master, here are today's orders.
Right. Leave them.
I'll get to them later.
[KAI]
More orders for work, eh?
They keep piling up
on top of each other.
I can't keep up anymore.
[MAN] I've never been
so terrified in my life.
This landslide
was huge. Gigantic.
It was so big that it
swept away an entire village.
It was terrible.
I'm lucky to be alive.
This happened a few
years ago out west,
in the foothills of Mount
something-or-other...
[KAI] Foothills?
No, it couldn't be, could it?
Don't have time
to worry about it right now.
There are
commissions to finish.
I've got to keep working.
I'm on the verge of making
a real name for myself.
[ART DEALER]
Ah, very nice.
The work of
a true master artist.
However, and I beg your pardon,
but I have to ask...
Have you not
been feeling well?
Huh?
[ART DEALER] It's just that your
previous paintings seemed
so full of life,
but these recent ones?
Well, they're just
not quite as vivid.
I'm sure it's just a dry spell.
All artists have them
every now and then.
Damn it! What--
What's wrong with me?
[DOCTOR] You appear to be
suffering from fatigue.
Take your medicine and get lots
of rest over the next few days.
--But...
--No buts. Rest.
Besides, your customers
won't mind waiting
for an artist
of your reputation.
[KAI'S SISTER]
Kai. How are you feeling?
Take this, okay?
It'll make you feel better.
[KAI]
Hey, Sis.
How many years has it been
since you left to get married?
You're doing well, I hope.
How's Father? Has he ever
forgiven me for leaving?
Has it really been
ten years since I said goodbye
and left the two of you?
I'm sorry I've not kept
in touch. I'm selfish, I know.
I want to walk
through our village again.
Smell the mountain air
and listen to the sounds
of the streams.
There's nothing
to be afraid of.
They're your family.
I just want to see them.
Then maybe I'll be able to paint
again, as well as I used to.
[KAI]
Oh, no. It can't be.
Auntie?!
Is that...?
Kai?
[KAI]
What... What happened here?
[KAI'S AUNT] Your sister
wrote you a letter.
You mean to tell me
you didn't get it?
I see. I'll take
that as a "no."
Three years ago there was
a terrible landslide.
Homes, crops,
people, animals--
almost everything
was swept away.
We who survived got together
and asked your sister
to write you.
We were hoping that
since you had become
a rich and famous artist,
you would be able
to help the village.
We waited for a response,
but it never came.
[KAI] And Father and Sis?!
Where are they?!
I'm sorry, Kai.
I'm afraid your father
was killed in the landslide.
The following year,
your sister died
while giving birth to
this child: your niece.
Now, I say this
for your own good.
Leave this place, Kai.
And never come back here.
[ANTIQUES DEALER] He was
a very popular artist,
and his fame just kept growing.
But one day,
he just up and left
for parts unknown
and never came back.
This coat's
a rare collector's item!
The painting alone
would fetch a good price!
[GINKO]
Huh...
[ANTIQUES DEALER]
Well, what do you think?
The silk is thin
but unusually heavy.
And it definitely
smells of mushi.
I'm sure you could get a
good price from that doctor
who collects all those
curiosities, don't you think?
Well, how does
this price sound to you?
[GINKO]
Hmm.
It doesn't appear dangerous,
but until I know
the true
nature of the mushi,
I'd be taking a risk, so I can't
ask him to pay a high price.
I'll take it at half price.
[laughs]
You can't be serious!
Come on. You probably
bought this as scrap cloth.
[ANTIQUES DEALER] No, no!
This is an investment.
One that you could
resell at a higher price!
[GINKO] I have no desire to
deal with troublesome mushi.
And besides, no mushi master
in their right mind
would fork over a fortune for
something like this, my friend.
[ANTIQUES DEALER]
No, wait! Listen...
Maybe this
will change your mind.
It's been said that
this mountain is located
near the artist's hometown.
An important clue.
Won't this help
your investigation?
[GINKO]
Yes. At half price.
[ANTIQUES DEALER sighs]
Okay. You win.
[knock at door]
[STUDENT] Master, I'm very sorry
to hear about your family.
But, sir. The orders.
You must come back.
No. I can't go back.
I can't even... paint...
anything... anymore.
When I hold the brush,
nothing inspires
me anymore. Nothing.
[KAI]
The mountain.
It looks so foreign to me,
like it's out of place.
Just like me in this village.
I've become an outcast
in my own home.
Maybe it would be best
if I moved away
to some place where
no one's ever heard of me.
[KAI]
What's this?
[KAI] The taste of home.
It's been too long.
[KAI]
Well, what do you know?
I don't feel dizzy
for a change.
And I have energy.
Oh, hello there, Toyo.
Playing by yourself today, huh?
I was bringing a gift
to you and Granny.
Where is she? In the house?
Granny no wake up 'day.
She's cold.
[VILLAGER A] What should
we do about the child?
[VILLAGER B] Doesn't she have
relatives on her father's side?
[VILLAGER B] If I recall,
they live far away,
but she should go to them.
I'll do it! Please!
Let me raise her!
She's my niece!
I beg you!
Give her to you?
This child is mentally
and physically slow.
Come now, artist.
You can't raise her.
[KAI] I can! I promise
to give her a good home.
And love her!
Don't send her away!
She's the only
family I have left!
[KAI] Toyo, can you help me hold
this up for a second, please?
[KAI]
Good girl.
[VILLAGER C]
That's not going to work.
Here, let me show you.
If you do it that way,
it will topple right over.
Here you go.
Be Careful. Don't spill it.
[KAI] Poor thing.
She's five years old,
but mentally still a baby.
It's yummy!
[chuckles]
[WOMAN] Thank you for
your hard work today, Kai.
Here. These are
for your niece.
[KAI] Toyo's sure going
to love these.
[KAI]
It's back to normal.
The mountain.
The smoke. But how?
[KAI]
What is this?
Uuh!
Damn. Ugh! Thought I
was a goner there.
I knew it. I should have
never bought that thing.
What the--? Who are you?
Me? No one that
you need to worry about.
[GINKO]
It's gotten lighter.
[KAI] Wait, that's...
That's my old coat.
So, I've been searching
for the mountain
in this painting
in the hopes I can find out
more about the mushi
that live in the coat.
I knew I had to be
getting close when
something strange
happened when I set foot
on the mountain.
Why's the...
pack getting so... heavy?!
What the--?
What's happening?!
[groans]
Thankfully
I was able to escape,
but only after the mushi
had left the coat.
Can't say I enjoyed
the taste of that mud, though.
[KAI chuckles]
That little mudbath gave me
all the answers I needed.
The mushi that were
in that coat
were a type of ubusuna
native to this region.
Ubu...suna?
[GINKO] Mushi unique
to each region.
They usually resemble mud.
When they're in
the ground, that is.
But above ground?
Well, that's another story.
There they take
the form of smoke.
I understand there was a big
landslide here years ago.
A large number of ubusuna were
probably also swept away then.
Some of those ubusuna
must have found this coat,
nested in it,
and made it their home.
And apparently, there were
a lot of them in there.
Ubusuna normally can't survive
outside their own region,
so tell me something.
This fabric.
It was woven from local
materials, wasn't it?
Yes. My sister.
She made it
completely from things
she found on the mountain.
When I was away,
wearing it reminded me
of the smell of home.
For me, it was home.
Ubusuna are attracted to
the scents of their homeland.
Thus, they tend to dwell mostly
within the local plant life.
However, when people
eat those particular plants
they become hosts
for the ubusuna as well.
Even though they can
be found everywhere,
these mushi
aren't very powerful.
In fact, if a host
leaves the region,
they lose their power
altogether.
But if they return to the
region where they were born,
their power returns,
and they protect you for life
from other minor mushi
that might do you harm.
Could the ubusuna affect
a child's development?
Make them slow, perhaps?
It's a possibility.
If the child didn't
get enough ubusuna
when it was weaned
from its mother,
that could have caused it.
If that was the case,
there might be a cure
since a large number of ubusuna
have now returned to the area.
They'll be nesting
in the plants again.
With any luck, she might
gradually catch up
if you feed her
plenty of local foods.
I understand.
Say... You don't have any need
for my coat anymore, do you?
Will you...
maybe sell it back to me?
I wish I could,
but I've already promised it
to someone else. Sorry.
[KAI] Please! This coat
means a lot to me!
[sighs]
All right.
It's yours. But only
under one condition...
[ADASHINO] Ah! A coat
where ubusuna live?
Very interesting...
[GINKO] Yes.
And once in a great while,
smoke rises from the mountain
in the painting.
[ADASHINO]
Really? How long of a while?
Well, I'd say about...
once every ten years or so.
[ADASHINO]
I'll take it then.
Hmm, this painting...
It's quite a work of art,
I must say.
Yes. The work of an artistic
genius who disappeared.
[ADASHINO] Ooh. I can't
wait to see the smoke!
[GINKO] Well...
I almost drowned in mud.
I guess I can be
forgiven for this.
[KAI]
Paint? On this?
Yes. Just like that.
[GINKO] Do you
still have some paint?
Yeah. I do.
Let me go get them.
[yawns]
Hey! You're really good, Kai.
[TOYO]
Muh-mountain!
Right, Toyo! This mountain
here? It's ours.
[TOYO]
Paint some more, pwease.
[KAI]
Okay. I will.
[NARRATOR]
Next: "String from the Sky."